
Disaster Recovery Plan for Script Linux Server

Objective:

The Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) aims to ensure the swift and effective recovery of the Script Linux Server, which is crucial for running all production scripts. The server has a mirrored copy at another site, and the synchronization of scripts is facilitated by GitLab CI/CD. This plan outlines procedures to be followed to minimize downtime and data loss.

Server Overview:

Primary Server:
Location: [Primary Site]
Hosts all production scripts and critical data.
Regularly synchronized with the secondary server.
Secondary Server:
Location: [Secondary Site]
A replica of the primary server for redundancy.
Risk Assessment:

Identify potential risks such as hardware failures, natural disasters, and human errors. Evaluate the impact of these risks on the availability and integrity of the server.

Backup Strategy:

GitLab Repository:
Scripts are hosted on a GitLab repository.
Regularly back up the GitLab repository to ensure script versioning and availability.
Server Configuration Backup:
Periodically back up the server configuration to expedite recovery.
Synchronization Process:

GitLab CI/CD Pipeline:
Configure GitLab CI/CD pipelines for automatic synchronization of scripts between the primary and secondary servers.
yaml
Copy code
stages:
  - sync

sync:
  stage: sync
  script:
    - git pull origin master
    - scp -r scripts user@secondary_server:/path/to/scripts
Regular Testing:
Conduct regular tests to ensure the synchronization process is working effectively.
Redundancy Measures:

Secondary Server:
Maintain a secondary server at an off-site location ([Secondary Site]) to serve as a failover in case of primary server failure.
Load Balancing:
Implement load balancing to distribute script execution between the primary and secondary servers.
Emergency Response Procedures:

Incident Identification:
Establish clear protocols for identifying and classifying incidents.
Communication Plan:
Define a communication hierarchy for informing stakeholders about the incident.
Isolation and Containment:
Isolate affected systems to prevent further damage.
Recovery Procedures:

Primary Server Failure:
In the event of primary server failure, redirect traffic to the secondary server.
GitLab Repository Restoration:
Restore the GitLab repository to the latest version on the primary server.
Script Synchronization:
Trigger a manual synchronization of scripts from the GitLab repository to the primary server.
Testing and Verification:
Perform thorough testing to ensure the restored server functions as expected.
Documentation and Training:

Documentation:
Maintain up-to-date documentation for all aspects of the DRP, including the synchronization process.
Training:
Regularly train IT staff on DRP procedures to ensure readiness.
Regular Review and Testing:

DRP Review:
Conduct periodic reviews of the DRP to account for changes in infrastructure and technology.
Simulation Exercises:
Conduct simulated disaster recovery exercises to test the efficiency of the plan.
Contact Information:

Primary Site:
[Primary Site Contact Information]
Secondary Site:
[Secondary Site Contact Information]
This Disaster Recovery Plan is a living document that must be revisited and updated regularly to reflect changes in the infrastructure and technology landscape. Regular testing and training are crucial to ensuring the effectiveness of the plan in the face of unforeseen events.
